Daily log:

Smithers: 
Oct 19:
Mira and I left for Smithers and drove to Vanderhoof (10h), where we stayed downtown in the North Country Inn. It was clean and relatively nice, but there are a lot of tradespeople who also stay there. 

Oct 20: 
Continued on to Smithers, driving through 3 different snow storms. Started sampling on Hudson Mountain. It was very snowy up the mountain, sampled menfer, vacmem, alnvir. We saw a grizzly bear walking down the road. 

For this trip we stayed at a lovely airbnb: "Contemporary mountain-side living". Located at the base of Hudson mountain, this airbnb had one bed and a pull-out couch. It was a little chilly, but warm if you had a good fire going. It had double doors facing into the forest, out of which I worked to pack the samples into the coolers.

Oct 21: 
Collected samples from Onion, Harvey, and Lyon. All three had snow. Onion also had very fresh and large bear tracks walking up the road. Collected: riblac, vibedu, corsto, loninv, alnvir, symalb, sorsco, poptre, shecan, vacmem, and popbal. It was difficult to find poptre and popbal that had live branches with buds low enough for us to reach. The samrac also lacked buds and appeared unhealthy.

Oct 22:
Sampled Call Lake. There was no snow, but I was shocked by the extent of their fire management treatment. The entire understory had been cleared in parts and huge piles of brush were stacked to be burnt. Collected: rubpar, loninv, vibedu, vacmem, symalb, sorsco, riblac, shecan, amealn, poptre,betpap, corsto, acegla, spipyr.

Oct 23: 
Sampled Seymour lake trail and returned to Hudson for more vacmem and Onion to get more Popbal. At Seymour, we sampled acegla, betpap, shecan, spibet, corsto, spipyr. 

Oct 24:
Returned to Vancouver and did the drive in one day, leaving at 7:00 and arriving at 10:30.

Oct 25: Prepared for leaving for Manning park, repacking the car and printing maps.

Oct 26: Drove to Manning park and went straight to Eastgate. At Eastgate, we collected: poptre, spipyr, loninv, riblac. Next sampled at strawberry flats and Powell trail, collecting: alnvir, rubpar, samrac, riblac, loninv, amealn, spibet, vacmem. 

Stayed in an airbnb in Sunshine valley (on the side of hope slide). This is a gated area and more rustic than our previous airbnbs. The cabin had no wifi or signal. But was very cozy and had 2 bedrooms, one with bunkbeds. 

Oct 27:
Sampled Lightening lake area, windy Joe trail, and 20 minute lake, as well as the Cambie creek Nordic ski area. Collected samples of vacmem, rhoalb, shecan, riblac, sorsco, loniv, alnvir, spibet, amealn, rubpar and spipyr. We collected way too many samples, packing them in the coolers required us to be up until 3 am!

Oct 28:
Sampled at Cayuse flats and Sumallo Grove. Sumallo Grove was closed for the season, with the gate locked and the sign taken down, but we walked in. Here we collected some vibedu, rubpar, popbal, sorsco, samrac, and corsto.

We returned to campus and Mika and I went to Home Depot to purchase more shelving and plywood for setting up the growth chamber.

Oct 30: 
Started experiment set up. Initially hoped to work in the sample prep room, but it was too hot in the afternoon (with the sun) and I was told it would not be possible to lower the temperature. So we moved to working in the loading doc. Started setting up samples from Smithers, since they were the oldest.

Oct 31: 
Finished setting up samples from Smithers.

Nov 1: 
Started setting up samples from Manning park

Nov 2:
Finished experiment set up.

Summary: I have 19 species from Smithers and 20 species from Manning Park, for a total of 21 species. Did not have sufficient samples of sorsco from Smithers to do full replication. 

Nov 5:
A large portion of my flasks arrived and I started unboxing them.

Nov 6:
I began the process of transferring samples to the flasks and changing their water.

Nov 8: 
Finished transferring samples to the flasks. The experiment is now fully set up. 

2 Poptre from Smithers were dead 

Nov 9:
Checked samples 

Nov 14:
Changed water for all flasks

November 25:
Day 0 for low chill of three weeks (day 22 of experiment).
LHH-- ch 4 hobo 1 and 2
LLH-- ch 5 hobo 3 & 4
LHL-- ch 6 hobo 5 & 6
LLL-- ch 12 hobo 7 & 8

November 26:
Changed water of all flasks

Dec 2:
Changed water of low chill flasks

Dec 3: 
Changed water of high chill flaks

Dec 5:
Met with Lizzie and discussed experiment progress 

Dec 9: 
Changed water in low chill flasks

Dec 13:
Changed water in high chill flasks
Rotated chambers for low chill flasks
LHH-- ch 12 
LLH-- ch 6
LHL-- ch 5 
LLL-- ch 4

Dec 16:
Changed water in three of four chambers

Dec 17:
Finished changing water of the 4th chamber (LLL) 
Checked HOBO batteries

Dec 23:
Moved high chill flasks into forcing chambers for day 0 (day 50 of experiment)
-with help from Mika and Sadie
Changed water of low chill flasks

HHH-- ch 8 hobo 14 & 12
HLH-- ch 11 hobo 9 & 11 
HHL-- ch 9 hobo 10 & 16
HLL-- ch 13 hobo 13 & 15 

Dec 27:
Changed water for high chill flasks

Dec 30:
Changing water of LC flasks
Rotated chambers

LHH-- ch 8
LLH-- ch 11
LHL-- ch 9 
LLpLf-- ch 13

HHH-- ch 12
HLH-- ch 6
HHL-- ch 5 - ck
HLL-- ch 4 - ck

Dec 31:
Observations in LLH, LHH, LHL, LLL, HLH, HHL, 

Jan 3
Hobo #5 was out of chamber at 2pm

Jan 4
Observations done for LC-HF chambers and started observations for HC chambers

Jan 5
Completed observations for HC chambers

Jan 6: 
Observations on LC-HF chambers -culling samples

Jan 7:
Observations on LC-LF chambers 

Jan 8: 
Observations on HC-LF, and most of HC-HF

Jan 9: 
Finished last few samples in HC-HF and conducted observations in LC-LF

Jan 10:
Finished last few LC-LF and did all the LC-HF

Jan11:
Observations on HCHPHF, most of HCLPHF, and most of HCHPLF

Jan 12:
Finished HCLPHF, HCHPLF, and HCLFLF, started LC-LF

Jan 13:
Finished LC-LF. LC-HF, half of LC-HF

Jan 14:
Observations, finished LC-HF and started HC-HF

Rotated chambers
LLL - ch 8 - done
LHL - ch 11 - done
HLH    - ch 9 -done
LHH - ch 13 - done
HHL - ch 12 - done
LLH - ch 6 - done
HLL - ch 5 - done 
HHH - ch 4 - done

Hobos moved around from 2:30-5, disregard data

Jan 15:
Finished HC-HF observations
SNOW DAY!

Jan 16: 
Observations on HC-LF

Jan 17:
Observations on LC-HF and started LC-LF & HC-HF

Jan 18:
Finished HC-HF and continued with LC_LF

Jan 19:
Observations for HC-LF and finish LC_LF

Jan 20: 
HC_HF, maybe start LC

Chamber 12 malfunction: At 10 am chamber 12 pressure rose and shut down, realized and restarted chamber at 2 (4h), swapped samples that were in there (HC_HP_LF) with LC_HP_LF in case it happens again. Reducing effects on the experiment 

Jan 21: 
Observations conducted on all LC samples. 

Jan 22: 
Observations conducted on HC_LF, only took 4.5 h

Jan 23: 
Observations for HC_HF

Jan 24:
Observations on LC samples

Jan 25:
Finished observations on LC_HP_LF and did observations on HC_LF

Jan 26:
Observations on HC_HF; observations now only taking ~ 4 hours

Jan 27:
Observations on all the LC chambers - ~5 hours

Jan 28:
Observations on the HC_LF

Rotated chambers
LLL - ch 8 --> 9
LHL - ch 11 --> 13
HLH    - ch 9 --> 8
LHH - ch 13 --> 11
HHL - ch 12 --> 4
LLH - ch 6 --> 6
HLL - ch 5 --> 12 
HHH - ch 4 --> 5

January 29:
Observations on HC_HF

January 30:
Observations on LC

January 31:
Observations on HC_LF




