Daily log:

Smithers: 
Oct 19:
Mira and I left for Smithers and drove to Vanderhoof (10h), where we stayed downtown in the North Country Inn. It was clean and relatively nice, but there are a lot of tradespeople who also stay there. 

Oct 20: 
Continued on to Smithers, driving through 3 different snow storms. Started sampling on Hudson Mountain. It was very snowy up the mountain, sampled menfer, vacmem, alnvir. We saw a grizzly bear walking down the road. 

For this trip we stayed at a lovely airbnb: "Contemporary mountain-side living". Located at the base of Hudson mountain, this airbnb had one bed and a pull-out couch. It was a little chilly, but warm if you had a good fire going. It had double doors facing into the forest, out of which I worked to pack the samples into the coolers.

Oct 21: 
Collected samples from Onion, Harvey, and Lyon. All three had snow. Onion also had very fresh and large bear tracks walking up the road. Collected: riblac, vibedu, corsto, loninv, alnvir, symalb, sorsco, poptre, shecan, vacmem, and popbal. It was difficult to find poptre and popbal that had live branches with buds low enough for us to reach. The samrac also lacked buds and appeared unhealthy.

Oct 22:
Sampled Call Lake. There was no snow, but I was shocked by the extent of their fire management treatment. The entire understory had been cleared in parts and huge piles of brush were stacked to be burnt. Collected: rubpar, loninv, vibedu, vacmem, symalb, sorsco, riblac, shecan, amealn, poptre,betpap, corsto, acegla, spipyr.

Oct 23: 
Sampled Seymour lake trail and returned to Hudson for more vacmem and Onion to get more Popbal. At Seymour, we sampled acegla, betpap, shecan, spibet, corsto, spipyr. 

Oct 24:
Returned to Vancouver and did the drive in one day, leaving at 7:00 and arriving at 10:30.

Oct 25: Prepared for leaving for Manning park, repacking the car and printing maps.

Oct 26: Drove to Manning park and went straight to Eastgate. At Eastgate, we collected: poptre, spipyr, loninv, riblac. Next sampled at strawberry flats and Powell trail, collecting: alnvir, rubpar, samrac, riblac, loninv, amealn, spibet, vacmem. 

Stayed in an airbnb in Sunshine valley (on the side of hope slide). This is a gated area and more rustic than our previous airbnbs. The cabin had no wifi or signal. But was very cozy and had 2 bedrooms, one with bunkbeds. 

Oct 27:
Sampled Lightening lake area, windy Joe trail, and 20 minute lake, as well as the Cambie creek Nordic ski area. Collected samples of vacmem, rhoalb, shecan, riblac, sorsco, loniv, alnvir, spibet, amealn, rubpar and spipyr. We collected way too many samples, packing them in the coolers required us to be up until 3 am!

Oct 28:
Sampled at Cayuse flats and Sumallo Grove. Sumallo Grove was closed for the season, with the gate locked and the sign taken down, but we walked in. Here we collected some vibedu, rubpar, popbal, sorsco, samrac, and corsto.

We returned to campus and Mika and I went to Home Depot to purchase more shelving and plywood for setting up the growth chamber.

Oct 30: 
Started experiment set up. Initially hoped to work in the sample prep room, but it was too hot in the afternoon (with the sun) and I was told it would not be possible to lower the temperature. So we moved to working in the loading doc. Started setting up samples from Smithers, since they were the oldest.

Oct 31: 
Finished setting up samples from Smithers.

Nov 1: 
Started setting up samples from Manning park

Nov 2:
Finished experiment set up.

Summary: I have 19 species from Smithers and 20 species from Manning Park, for a total of 21 species. Did not have sufficient samples of sorsco from Smithers to do full replication. 

Nov 5:
A large portion of my flasks arrived and I started unboxing them.

Nov 6:
I began the process of transferring samples to the flasks and changing their water.

Nov 8: 
Finished transferring samples to the flasks. The experiment is now fully set up. 

2 Poptre from Smithers were dead 

Nov 9:
Checked samples 

November 12: checked samples and added twist ties

November 13: checked samples and added twist ties

November 14: Changed water. Door was opened frequency and closed from 8:30 to 7pm

November 15: Finished changing water, with door being opened and closed frequently from 3:30-5pm.

November 16: checked samples and added twist ties. Noted bud swelling in rubpar, shecan individuals. 

